rfc: distributed coordinator (#1078)
edgelesssys/contrast: rfc/010-distributed-coordinator.md

2. For the active mesh CA key at a Coordinator with active manifest `M`, one of the following is true:
   * It was locally generated by the Coordinator when `M` was set.
   * It was received from an authenticated Coordinator with active manifest `M`.
3. A Coordinator only shares its secret seed and its mesh CA key with an authenticated Coordinator.

Taken together, these invariants ensure

* data owner security: a mesh CA key is only ever used with a single manifest and isn't known to non-Coordinators.
* seed share owner security: the seed configured for an active manifest can be traced back to the seed share owners in that manifest.

See the [section on manifest changes](#manifest-changes) below regarding authentication of Coordinators.

### Persistency changes

The Coordinator uses a generic key-value store interface to read from and write to the persistent store.
In order to allow distributed read and write requests, we only need to swap the implementation for one that can be used concurrently.

```golang
type Store interface {
  Get(key string) ([]byte, error)

>   Set(key string, value []byte) error

Reviewer: If only `CompareAndSwap` is atomic, do we have a race risk with `Get`/`Set` here?

Author: These store primitives are used for different purposes:

* `Get`: snapshot of the current state of a piece of data without any freshness guarantees
* `Set`: store content-addressed data (policies, manifests)
* `CompareAndSwap`: atomically advance the latest transition (i.e. active manifest)

We implicitly expect the store to be race free for concurrent Get/Set calls (no partial or corrupt data).

All of this has been defined originally for recovery persistence: https://github.com/edgelesssys/contrast/blob/main/rfc/004-recovery.md#storage-interface.

However, those are very opinionated and rather monolithic, so it may be better to implement this using the watch primitives in `client-go`.
The implementation could probably share some code with `KubeClient.WaitFor`.

#### Coordinator pods

The Coordinator pods should have a soft anti-affinity[^3] to themselves.

[^3]: <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#inter-pod-affinity-and-anti-affinity>

### Manifest changes

In order to allow Coordinators to recover from their peers, we need to define which workloads are allowed to recover.
There are two reasons why we want to make this explicit:

1. Allowing a Coordinator with a different policy to recover is a prerequisite for automatic updates.
2. The Coordinator policy can't be embedded into the Coordinator during build, and deriving it at runtime is inconvenient.

Thus, we introduce a new field to the manifest that specifies roles available to the verified identity.
For now, the only known role is `coordinator`, but this could be extended in the future (for example: delegate CAs).

```golang
type PolicyEntry struct {
  SANs             []string
  WorkloadSecretID string `json:",omitempty"`

>   Roles            []string `json:",omitempty"` // <-- New in RFC009.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Roles            []string `json:",omitempty"` // <-- New in RFC009.
```
I know this is probably only an example, but we'll want to type the roles, I think?

Author: I don't understand the suggested diff, but I think you meant to say roles should be an enum array, not a string array? If only Contrast is the audience for these I'd agree, but we could also make them available to users as certificate extensions, in which case we should probably not restrict ourselves here.

### Peer recovery

The peer recovery process is attempted by Coordinators that are in [Recovery mode](#recovery-mode):

1. Once after entering recovery mode.
2. Periodically from a goroutine, to reconcile missed watch events.

The process starts with a DNS request for the `coordinator-peers` name to discover ready Coordinators.
For each of the ready Coordinators, the recovering Coordinator calls a new `meshapi.Recover` method.

```proto
service MeshAPI {
  rpc NewMeshCert(NewMeshCertRequest) returns (NewMeshCertResponse);
  rpc Recover(RecoverRequest) returns (RecoverResponse); // <-- New in RFC010.
}

message RecoverRequest {}

message RecoverResponse {
  bytes Seed = 1;
  bytes Salt = 2;
  bytes RootCAKey = 3;
  bytes RootCACert = 4;
  bytes MeshCAKey = 5;
  bytes MeshCACert = 6;
  bytes LatestManifest = 7;
}
```

When this method is called, the serving Coordinator:

1. Provides an attestation statement to the client (this isn't the case for the mesh API right now).
2. Queries the current state and attaches it to the context (this already happens automatically for all `meshapi` calls).

> 3. Verifies that the client identity is allowed to recover by the state's manifest (has the `coordinator` role).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Verifies that the client identity is allowed to be recovered by the state's manifest (has the `coordinator` role).
```
